Installing Fermitools and gtburst is incredibly straightforward now that you have Miniforge (and mamba) set up.

The most important thing to know is that gtburst is bundled directly inside the Fermitools package. You do not need to hunt down a separate repository for it; installing Fermitools gives you gtburst automatically.

Here is the best strategy to install them cleanly on your CachyOS system:
1. Create a Dedicated Environment

Because astrophysics packages are notorious for dependency conflicts, do not install this into your threeML environment. You want a completely isolated space for Fermi data analysis.

Run this command in your terminal (using mamba for speed, since the Fermi dependencies are quite large):
Bash

mamba create -n fermi -c conda-forge -c fermi fermitools fermitools-data

(Note: I included fermitools-data in the command. This is highly recommended because it downloads the Galactic and isotropic diffuse emission models you will absolutely need for analyzing LAT background data).
2. Activate the Environment

Once the installation finishes, activate your new environment:
Bash

conda activate fermi

3. Launch gtburst

With the environment active, your shell now has access to all the command-line tools (like gtselect, gtmktime, gtbin, etc.).

To launch the graphical interface for GRB analysis, simply type:
Bash

gtburst

This will open the pyBurstAnalysisGUI window, allowing you to download LAT/GBM data, run unbinned likelihood analyses, and generate .pha files to feed into your threeML environment later.
A Quick CachyOS / Wayland Tip

Since you are on CachyOS and likely using Wayland (with KDE Plasma or Hyprland), if the gtburst graphical window ever looks glitchy or refuses to open, it is usually a Wayland compatibility quirk with Python's Tkinter/Qt backends.

If that happens, you can force it to run through XWayland by launching it like this instead:
Bash

QT_QPA_PLATFORM=xcb gtburst

Otherwise, if gtburst opens smoothly on the first try, you are ready to start analyzing LAT data!
